<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_weekly_review_concept" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>The Weekly Review</title>
  <shortdesc>The weekly review is a structured reflection ritual that closes one week and opens
    the next. It is the mechanism through which Portfolio Manager shifts from tracking to
    learning.</shortdesc>

  <conbody>

    <section id="purpose">
      <title>Purpose of the Weekly Review</title>
      <p>Data alone does not improve your system. A high session completion rate tells you that
        you worked, but it does not tell you whether you worked on the right things or made the
        kind of progress that matters to you. The weekly review prompts you to examine both.</p>
      <p>The review takes 10 to 20 minutes. It is worth the investment: the decisions you make at
        the end of a review—which project to prioritize, which to slow down, what risk to
        watch—directly shape how you allocate your next week's sessions.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="review_structure">
      <title>Review Structure</title>
      <p>The weekly review form is divided into two sections: reflection and planning.</p>
      <p><b>Reflection fields</b> examine the week that just ended:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>What moved</dt>
          <dd>Which projects or milestones made meaningful progress? What contributed to that
            movement?</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>What stalled</dt>
          <dd>Which projects or milestones did not advance? What blocked them?</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Signals</dt>
          <dd>What patterns did you notice? Recurring blockers, energy patterns, or scope creep
            are all worth capturing here.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Decision for next week</dt>
          <dd>One key decision to carry forward—a change in approach, a scope reduction, or a
            commitment to address a specific blocker.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p><b>Planning fields</b> shape the week ahead:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Primary focus</dt>
          <dd>The one project that will receive your best attention this week.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Project to deprioritize</dt>
          <dd>The project that can receive less attention without causing harm. Naming this
            explicitly reduces decision fatigue during the week.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Risk to watch</dt>
          <dd>A specific blocker or external dependency to monitor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>First session target</dt>
          <dd>The very first session you plan to complete next week. Starting with a concrete
            first action reduces friction when Monday arrives.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>

    <section id="review_history">
      <title>Review History</title>
      <p>Past weekly reviews are preserved and accessible from the left panel of the Weekly Review
        tab. Reviewing three or four consecutive weeks of reflection entries reveals longer-term
        patterns—persistent blockers, consistently stalled projects, and decisions that worked—that
        are not visible in a single week's data.</p>
    </section>

  </conbody>
</concept>
