<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossgroup PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary Group//EN" "glossgroup.dtd">
<glossgroup id="glossary" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Glossary</title>

  <glossentry id="gl_active">
    <glossterm>Active (project status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A project lifecycle state in which the project appears on the Dashboard, is eligible
      for new sessions and milestones, and contributes to the portfolio score each week. Contrast
      with <term keyref="gl_backlog_project">Backlog</term> and
      <term keyref="gl_archive">Archive</term>.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_archive">
    <glossterm>Archive (project status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A terminal project lifecycle state for projects that are complete or permanently
      discontinued. Archived projects are read-only; their history is preserved but no new
      sessions or milestones can be added.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_backlog_project">
    <glossterm>Backlog (project status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A project lifecycle state in which the project is paused. Backlog projects do not
      appear on the Dashboard and do not affect portfolio scoring. A project can be moved from
      Backlog back to Active at any time.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_backlog_session">
    <glossterm>Backlog (session and milestone status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>The initial status of a session or milestone. A backlog session or milestone is
      captured but not yet committed to a specific week or roadmap. It does not count toward the
      weekly budget or the project score.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_budget">
    <glossterm>Weekly time budget</glossterm>
    <glossdef>The number of hours per week the user has available for personal projects, as
      configured in Settings. The budget is used as a planning constraint displayed in the Sessions
      tab. It is not enforced; scheduled time can exceed the budget without restriction.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_dashboard">
    <glossterm>Dashboard</glossterm>
    <glossdef>The first tab in the Portfolio Manager interface. Displays a portfolio health
      snapshot showing each active project's session counts, health score, and traffic-light
      status for the selected week. Also shows aggregate portfolio totals.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_done">
    <glossterm>Done (status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A terminal status for sessions and milestones indicating that the work or outcome
      is complete. Portfolio Manager records a completion timestamp automatically when a session
      or milestone is marked Done.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_milestone">
    <glossterm>Milestone</glossterm>
    <glossdef>An outcome-based checkpoint within a project that marks a meaningful phase of
      completion. Milestones are described as achieved states ("First draft complete") rather
      than as task steps. They share the five-state lifecycle with sessions: Backlog, Planned,
      Doing, Done, Cancelled. Completed milestones contribute 40 percent of a project's health
      score.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_plan_document">
    <glossterm>Plan document</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A freeform Markdown document stored with each project. The plan document has no
      required structure and supports standard Markdown syntax plus Mermaid diagram blocks.
      Changes save automatically as the user types.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_planned">
    <glossterm>Planned (status)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A session or milestone status indicating that the work is committed to a specific
      date or timeframe. Planned sessions count toward the weekly time budget and appear in the
      Dashboard's planned session count. They form the denominator of the session score
      component.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_portfolio">
    <glossterm>Portfolio</glossterm>
    <glossdef>The complete set of projects managed in Portfolio Manager. The recommended portfolio
      size is three to eight concurrent active projects. The portfolio score is the average of
      all active projects' individual health scores.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_priority">
    <glossterm>Priority</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A user-defined ranking from 1 (highest) to 5 (lowest) assigned to a project.
      Priority is for the user's reference only; it does not affect scoring, display order, or
      session scheduling behavior.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_project">
    <glossterm>Project</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A named commitment in the user's portfolio. Projects have three lifecycle states
      (Active, Backlog, Archive), a priority level, optional start and end dates, a Markdown plan
      document, and associated sessions and milestones.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_project_score">
    <glossterm>Project health score</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A value from 0 to 100 calculated weekly for each active project. The score is the
      sum of the session score component (up to 60 points) and the milestone score component
      (up to 40 points). It drives the traffic-light status displayed on the Dashboard.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_session">
    <glossterm>Session</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A time-boxed block of work scheduled for a specific project. Sessions have a
      duration (15 to 480 minutes), a scheduled date, and five lifecycle states: Backlog,
      Planned, Doing, Done, Cancelled. Completed sessions contribute 60 percent of a project's
      health score.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_slug">
    <glossterm>Slug</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A URL-safe identifier generated automatically from a project's name. For example,
      a project named "Novel Draft" receives the slug <codeph>novel-draft</codeph>. Slugs are
      used internally as unique identifiers and do not appear in the user interface.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_traffic_light">
    <glossterm>Traffic-light status</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A color-coded indicator on the Dashboard that summarizes a project's or
      portfolio's health score: Green (80–100), Yellow (60–79), or Red (0–59).</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_week_key">
    <glossterm>Week key</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A string identifier for a calendar week in the format YYYY.W, based on ISO 8601
      calendar week numbering. For example, <codeph>2026.15</codeph> identifies the 15th week of
      2026 (April 13–19). Week 1 contains the first Thursday of the year. Sessions and weekly
      reviews are indexed by week key.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

  <glossentry id="gl_weekly_review">
    <glossterm>Weekly review</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A structured reflection form completed once per week. The form captures what moved
      and what stalled during the week, patterns observed, a key decision for the following week,
      and planning decisions for the next week's sessions. Weekly reviews are preserved permanently
      in the review history.</glossdef>
  </glossentry>

</glossgroup>
