<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="r_session_states" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Session Status Values</title>
  <shortdesc>Reference for the five session status values, their meaning, and their effect on
    scoring and budget calculations.</shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="4">
        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
        <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1.5*"/>
        <colspec colname="col4" colwidth="1.5*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Status</entry>
            <entry>Meaning</entry>
            <entry>Counts toward budget?</entry>
            <entry>Counts toward score?</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Backlog</entry>
            <entry>Captured but not committed to a week. The session exists as an intention.</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Planned</entry>
            <entry>Committed to a scheduled date. Reflects an intention to work on the project this week.</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as planned time)</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as a planned session in the denominator)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Doing</entry>
            <entry>Work is currently in progress.</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as planned time)</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as a planned session in the denominator)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Done</entry>
            <entry>Work is complete. Portfolio Manager records the completion timestamp.</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as done time)</entry>
            <entry>Yes (as a completed session in the numerator and denominator)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Cancelled</entry>
            <entry>Session was abandoned. Can be deleted.</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
            <entry>No</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>

    <section id="valid_transitions">
      <title>Valid Status Transitions</title>
      <p>Sessions can move between states as follows:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Backlog → Planned, Doing, Done, Cancelled</li>
        <li>Planned → Doing, Done, Cancelled</li>
        <li>Doing → Done, Cancelled</li>
        <li>Done → (terminal; edit the session to change if needed)</li>
        <li>Cancelled → (terminal; delete or edit to reactivate)</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
