<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_archive_project" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Archive a Project</title>
  <shortdesc>Archive a project when it is complete, discontinued, or no longer active. Archiving
    preserves the project's history while removing it from the active Dashboard.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Archive a project in two situations: when all milestones are achieved and the project
        is complete, or when you have decided to discontinue the project. Archived projects are
        read-only—you can review their history, but you cannot add sessions or milestones to
        them.</p>
      <p>If you want to pause a project temporarily without archiving it, move it to Backlog
        status instead.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the project you want to archive.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Archive Project</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>A confirmation prompt appears asking you to confirm the archive
          action.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Confirm</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The project status changes to Archive. It disappears from the Dashboard and
          from the active project filter. It remains visible when you set the Projects tab filter
          to <uicontrol>Archive</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>All</uicontrol>.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>If you archived a project by mistake, you can restore it: open the Projects tab, set
        the status filter to <uicontrol>Archive</uicontrol>, select the project, click
        <uicontrol>Edit Project</uicontrol>, change the status back to
        <uicontrol>Active</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Backlog</uicontrol>, and save.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
