<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_configure_settings" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Configure Application Settings</title>
  <shortdesc>Adjust the weekly time budget, default session duration, and other application
    preferences using the Settings tab.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Weekly budget (hours)</uicontrol> spinbox, enter the number of
          hours you have available for personal projects each week.</cmd>
        <info><p>Set this to a number you can reliably achieve, not an aspirational target.
          The budget is a planning guide, not a quota.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Default session duration (minutes)</uicontrol> spinbox, enter
          your typical session length.</cmd>
        <info><p>This value pre-fills the duration field when you create a new session. Valid
          values are 15 to 480 minutes.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Log level</uicontrol> dropdown, select the logging verbosity.</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice><uicontrol>ERROR</uicontrol> — logs only application errors (recommended for
            daily use).</choice>
          <choice><uicontrol>WARNING</uicontrol> — logs errors and warnings.</choice>
          <choice><uicontrol>INFO</uicontrol> — logs normal application events.</choice>
          <choice><uicontrol>DEBUG</uicontrol> — logs all events including internal state changes
            (for troubleshooting only).</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Settings are applied immediately. Changes to the weekly budget are reflected
          in the budget bar on the Sessions tab.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>Settings are persisted in <filepath>~/.portfolio_manager/config.toml</filepath>. You can
        also edit this file directly in a text editor. See <xref href="r_config_file.dita"/> for
        the full list of configuration keys and their valid values.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
