<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_complete_weekly_review" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Complete the Weekly Review</title>
  <shortdesc>Reflect on the week that ended and set your intentions for the week ahead using the
    structured Weekly Review form.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Complete your weekly review once per week, at the end of the week (Friday evening or
        Sunday). Budget 15 to 20 minutes. The review produces decisions that shape your next
        week's session plan.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> tab and note the health status of each
          active project for the current week.</cmd>
        <info><p>You will reference these scores when answering the reflection questions.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Weekly Review</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Verify that the week selector shows the week you just completed. Use the arrow
          buttons to navigate if needed.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Load</uicontrol> to open or create the review for that week.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>What moved</uicontrol> field, write two to four sentences
          describing which projects or milestones made meaningful progress and what contributed
          to that movement.</cmd>
        <info><p>Be specific. "Novel Draft moved—completed three sessions and finished the
          outline" is more useful than "Things went well."</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>What stalled</uicontrol> field, write honestly about which
          projects did not advance and why.</cmd>
        <info><p>Common causes: schedule conflict, decision paralysis, scope ambiguity, or loss
          of energy. Naming the cause helps you address it next week.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Signals</uicontrol> field, note any patterns you observed during
          the week.</cmd>
        <info><p>Examples: "I consistently avoided the recording project—might need to
          investigate why." "Morning sessions were far more productive than evening ones."</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Decision for next week</uicontrol> field, write one concrete
          decision to carry forward.</cmd>
        <info><p>This should be an action: "Reduce scope of Album project to four songs only,"
          "Move Web Portfolio to Backlog until certification is done."</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Primary focus</uicontrol> field, name the one project that will
          receive your best attention next week.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Project to deprioritize</uicontrol> field, name the project that
          can receive minimal attention without harm.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Risk to watch</uicontrol> field, name a specific blocker or
          external dependency to monitor.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>First session target</uicontrol> field, name the first session you
          will complete next week.</cmd>
        <info><p>Naming your first session now reduces Monday-morning friction. Make it specific:
          "Write the opening scene of chapter five."</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save Review</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The review is saved and appears in the review history list on the left side
          of the Weekly Review tab.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>Use the decisions from this review to create sessions for next week. See
        <xref href="t_plan_weekly_sessions.dita"/>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
