<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_create_project" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Create a Project</title>
  <shortdesc>Add a new project to your portfolio and configure its metadata.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Create a project for each distinct commitment in your portfolio. A commitment qualifies
        as a project if it has a meaningful end state, benefits from regular sessions, and would
        suffer from being deprioritized indefinitely.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>New Project</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Project dialog opens.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> field, enter a short, recognizable name.</cmd>
        <info><p>Use a name you will recognize at a glance on the Dashboard. For example: "Novel
          Draft," "Home Studio Album," or "AWS Certification."</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> field, enter a one- or two-sentence
          summary of the project's purpose and desired outcome.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Active</uicontrol> if you intend to schedule sessions for this
            project this week.</choice>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Backlog</uicontrol> if you are capturing the project but are
            not ready to start yet.</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <uicontrol>Priority</uicontrol> field to a value from 1 (highest) to
          5 (lowest).</cmd>
        <info><p>Priority is for your reference. It does not affect scoring or display
          order.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>(Optional) Enter a <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> date and an <uicontrol>End</uicontrol>
          date in YYYY-MM-DD format, or click <uicontrol>Today</uicontrol> to fill in
          today's date.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The project appears in the Projects list. If status is Active, it also
          appears on the Dashboard.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>After creating a project, add milestones to define its key outcomes. See
        <xref href="t_create_milestone.dita"/>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
