<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_create_milestone" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Create a Milestone</title>
  <shortdesc>Add outcome-based milestones to a project to define what done looks like at each
    meaningful stage of the work.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Milestones represent completed outcomes, not tasks. Describe each milestone as a state
        that will be true when a phase of work is finished: "First draft complete," not "Write
        first draft."</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Milestones</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the project dropdown at the top of the tab, select the project you want to add a
          milestone to.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>New Milestone</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Milestone dialog opens.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> field, enter the outcome name.</cmd>
        <info><p>Write this as a noun phrase or past-tense statement that describes what will be
          true when this phase is complete. Examples:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>"Outline approved"</li>
            <li>"All episodes recorded"</li>
            <li>"Prototype tested with five users"</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Backlog</uicontrol> for a future milestone not yet in
            scope.</choice>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Planned</uicontrol> for a milestone you are actively working
            toward.</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>(Optional) Enter a <uicontrol>Target Date</uicontrol> in YYYY-MM-DD format.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>(Optional) Enter any notes that help clarify what this milestone means or how you
          will know it is achieved.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The milestone appears in the Milestones list for the selected project.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

  </taskbody>
</task>
