<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_create_session" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Create a Session</title>
  <shortdesc>Schedule a work session for a project by specifying its date, duration, and
    purpose.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Sessions are your primary planning tool. Create sessions at the start of the week to
        commit to specific blocks of work, or create them on the day you plan to work if you
        prefer a more spontaneous workflow.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Sessions</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Verify that the week displayed in the week selector matches the week you are
          planning for. Use the arrow buttons to navigate to a different week if needed.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>New Session</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Session dialog opens.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> dropdown, select the project this session
          belongs to.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>(Optional) In the <uicontrol>Milestone</uicontrol> dropdown, select the milestone
          this session will advance.</cmd>
        <info><p>Only milestones for the selected project are shown. You can change or clear this
          field later.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol> field, enter a brief label for what this
          session will accomplish.</cmd>
        <info><p>Keep this to one phrase: "Write act two outline," "Record guitar tracks,"
          "Study AWS IAM chapter." It appears in the Sessions table and the Dashboard.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Date</uicontrol> field, enter the scheduled date in YYYY-MM-DD
          format, or click <uicontrol>Today</uicontrol> to fill in today's date.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Planned</uicontrol> if this session is committed for this
            week and should count toward the weekly budget.</choice>
          <choice>Select <uicontrol>Backlog</uicontrol> if you are capturing the session idea
            without committing to a specific week.</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Min</uicontrol> spinbox, set the session duration in
          minutes.</cmd>
        <info><p>The default is set in <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>. Valid values are 15 to
          480.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>(Optional) In the <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> field, add any notes or
          context for the session—references to read, questions to explore, or specifics about
          what to accomplish.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The session appears in the Sessions table. If status is Planned, the weekly
          budget bar updates to reflect the added duration.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

  </taskbody>
</task>
