<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_first_launch" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Set Up Portfolio Manager for the First Time</title>
  <shortdesc>After installing Portfolio Manager, complete this initial setup to create your first
    projects and configure your weekly time budget.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>On first launch, Portfolio Manager creates a database and a configuration file in
        <filepath>~/.portfolio_manager/</filepath>. The main window opens to an empty Dashboard.
        The following steps walk you through creating your initial portfolio.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> in the tab bar.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Weekly budget (hours)</uicontrol> field, enter the number of hours
          per week you realistically have available for personal projects.</cmd>
        <info><p>This is not a target—it is a planning constraint. Be honest about available
          time including commutes, evenings, and weekends.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Default session duration (minutes)</uicontrol> field, enter your
          typical session length.</cmd>
        <info><p>90 minutes is a good default for focused creative or technical work. Adjust to
          30 or 60 minutes if your schedule typically allows shorter blocks.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> in the Settings tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>New Project</uicontrol> and create your first one to three active
          projects.</cmd>
        <info><p>Start with the projects that matter most right now—the ones you want to make
          real progress on this week. You can add more projects later. See
          <xref href="t_create_project.dita"/> for detailed instructions.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>For each project, add two to five milestones that describe meaningful outcomes you
          are working toward.</cmd>
        <info><p>See <xref href="t_create_milestone.dita"/> for instructions.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Sessions</uicontrol> tab and create sessions for the current
          week.</cmd>
        <info><p>Aim to schedule at least one session per active project. See
          <xref href="t_create_session.dita"/> for instructions.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> tab to review the initial portfolio
          state.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Dashboard shows all active projects with their initial scores and session
          counts.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>Your portfolio is set up and ready. Return to Portfolio Manager after each work session
        to mark it done, and complete your first weekly review at the end of the week.</p>
    </result>

  </taskbody>
</task>
