<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_install_cli" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Install Portfolio Manager via the Command Line</title>
  <shortdesc>Install and launch Portfolio Manager using the shell launch script or a manual
    virtual-environment setup. This method is suited for development, testing, or Linux
    systems.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>macOS or Linux</li>
        <li>Python 3.11 or later with Tkinter support</li>
        <li>Git</li>
        <li>An internet connection for the initial clone</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <steps-unordered>
      <!-- Two parallel procedures: Option A or Option B -->
    </steps-unordered>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Clone the repository:</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>git clone &lt;repository-url&gt; portfolio-manager
cd portfolio-manager</codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Choose one of the following launch methods:</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice>
            <p><b>Shell script (recommended):</b> Run the launch script directly. It creates
              the virtual environment on the first run and installs all dependencies.</p>
            <codeblock>bash launch.sh</codeblock>
          </choice>
          <choice>
            <p><b>Manual virtual environment:</b> Create and activate a virtual environment,
              then install the package and run the application.</p>
            <codeblock>python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .[dev]
python -m portfolio_manager</codeblock>
          </choice>
        </choices>
        <stepresult>Portfolio Manager opens and initializes the database and configuration file
          at <filepath>~/.portfolio_manager/</filepath> on first launch.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>To update, run <codeph>git pull origin main</codeph> in the repository directory. The
        launch script automatically installs any new dependencies on the next run.</p>
      <p>To run the test suite:</p>
      <codeblock>source .venv/bin/activate
pytest</codeblock>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
