<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_install_macos" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Install Portfolio Manager on macOS (Dock Shortcut)</title>
  <shortdesc>Install Portfolio Manager as a macOS application bundle and add it to the Dock for
    one-click daily access.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>macOS 12 (Monterey) or later</li>
        <li>Python 3.11 or later from <xref href="https://python.org" format="html"
            scope="external">python.org</xref>. The python.org installer includes Tkinter.
          <note type="caution">Python installed via Homebrew may not include Tkinter. Use the
            python.org installer to avoid launch failures.</note></li>
        <li>Git</li>
        <li>An internet connection for the initial clone</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open Terminal and clone the Portfolio Manager repository:</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>git clone &lt;repository-url&gt; portfolio-manager
cd portfolio-manager</codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the macOS shortcut creation script:</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>bash create_shortcut.sh</codeblock>
          <p>The script creates a <filepath>Portfolio Manager.app</filepath> bundle in
            <filepath>~/Applications/</filepath> and sets up a Python virtual environment
            in <filepath>.venv/</filepath> inside the repository.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open Finder and navigate to <filepath>~/Applications/</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Drag <filepath>Portfolio Manager.app</filepath> to the right side of the Dock.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the Dock icon to launch Portfolio Manager for the first time.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Portfolio Manager opens, creates the database and configuration file at
          <filepath>~/.portfolio_manager/</filepath>, and displays the Dashboard.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <postreq>
      <p>To update the application, run <codeph>git pull origin main</codeph> in the repository
        directory. The next time you launch from the Dock, the updated code runs automatically.
        No reinstallation is required.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
