<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_plan_weekly_sessions" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Plan Sessions for the Week</title>
  <shortdesc>Allocate your weekly time budget across active projects by creating and scheduling
    sessions at the start of each week.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Weekly session planning translates your portfolio priorities into concrete time blocks.
        Do this at the start of each week—before the week's demands pull your attention
        elsewhere.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Dashboard shows each active project's score from last week. Projects
          showing Red or Yellow status need session attention first.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Sessions</uicontrol> tab and confirm the week selector
          shows the current week.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Check the weekly budget bar at the bottom of the Sessions tab.</cmd>
        <info><p>Note how much time is available. This is your planning constraint.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Allocate sessions to red and yellow projects first.</cmd>
        <info><p>Projects that stalled last week need at least one session this week to recover.
          Create those sessions before allocating time to green projects.</p></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create or promote sessions for each active project until the weekly budget bar
          reflects your intended allocation.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Guidelines for allocation:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>The project you named as primary focus in your weekly review deserves at least
              two sessions.</li>
            <li>Every active project deserves at least one session per week. If you cannot
              schedule a session for a project, consider moving it to Backlog temporarily.</li>
            <li>Do not over-schedule. If the planned time exceeds your budget, remove lower-priority
              sessions or move them to a future week.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set all committed sessions to <uicontrol>Planned</uicontrol> status.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The budget bar shows your total planned hours for the week.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>Your week is planned. Each session represents a concrete commitment to a project. Return
        to the Sessions tab after each session to mark it Done.</p>
    </result>

  </taskbody>
</task>
