<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_update_session_status" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Update a Session's Status</title>
  <shortdesc>Mark a session as Done after you complete it, or Cancelled if you abandon it. Status
    updates drive the project health score on the Dashboard.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Sessions</uicontrol> tab and navigate to the week containing
          the session.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the session in the table.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Mark Done</uicontrol> to complete the session in one step.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Alternatively, click <uicontrol>Edit Session</uicontrol> to open the full dialog and
            change the status field manually. Use the Edit dialog when you also want to add notes
            about what you accomplished.</p>
        </info>
        <stepresult>The session status changes to Done. Portfolio Manager records the completion
          timestamp. The Dashboard score for the project updates immediately.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>The session is recorded as complete for the current week. Its duration counts toward the
        Done total in the weekly budget bar.</p>
    </result>

    <section id="cancel_session">
      <title>To Cancel a Session</title>
      <p>If you decide not to complete a session, select it in the Sessions table, click
        <uicontrol>Edit Session</uicontrol>, change the status to
        <uicontrol>Cancelled</uicontrol>, and save. Cancelled sessions do not count toward the
        weekly budget or the project score. You can delete cancelled sessions to keep the list
        tidy.</p>
      <note type="tip">If you cannot complete a session this week but still want to do the work,
        edit the session date to move it to a future week rather than cancelling it. This preserves
        the intent and keeps the session in your backlog.</note>
    </section>

  </taskbody>
</task>
