<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_write_project_plan" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Write a Project Plan Document</title>
  <shortdesc>Use the project plan editor to capture outlines, research notes, diagrams, and any
    reference material that supports your work on a project.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Each project includes a Markdown plan document. The editor offers a preview panel that
        renders formatted text and Mermaid diagrams. All changes save automatically as you type.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> tab and select the project you want to
          edit.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Edit Project</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Project dialog opens. The lower half of the dialog shows the plan document
          in preview mode.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to switch the plan document to edit mode.</cmd>
        <stepresult>A Markdown text editor replaces the preview panel.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write your plan document using standard Markdown syntax.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>The plan document has no required structure. Common approaches include:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>An outline or table of contents</li>
            <li>A goals or objectives section</li>
            <li>Reference notes or research summaries</li>
            <li>A decision log</li>
            <li>Tables of characters, chapters, modules, or tasks</li>
          </ul>
          <p>To include a Mermaid diagram, use a fenced code block with the
            <codeph>mermaid</codeph> language tag:</p>
          <codeblock>```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Draft] --&gt; B[Revision]
    B --&gt; C[Final]
```</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> to review the rendered output.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The editor switches to preview mode. Markdown formatting and Mermaid diagrams
          render automatically. Click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to return to edit mode at any
          time.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>Your plan document is saved automatically. There is no separate save action for plan
        document content.</p>
    </result>

    <postreq>
      <p>See <xref href="r_markdown_syntax.dita"/> for the full list of supported Markdown
        elements and Mermaid diagram types.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
