<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="ts_app_wont_launch" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Portfolio Manager Does Not Launch</title>
  <shortdesc>The application fails to open, exits immediately, or shows no window after launching
    from the Dock or a shell script.</shortdesc>

  <troublebody>

    <condition>
      <p>You launch Portfolio Manager from the Dock icon or by running
        <codeph>bash launch.sh</codeph> and one of the following occurs:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>No window appears.</li>
        <li>A window flashes briefly and closes.</li>
        <li>The terminal shows a Python traceback.</li>
      </ul>
    </condition>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>Python version is below 3.11.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Check the Python version:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>python3 --version</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If the version is below 3.11, download and install Python 3.11 or later from
              <xref href="https://python.org" format="html" scope="external">python.org</xref>.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Delete the existing virtual environment and relaunch:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>rm -rf .venv
bash launch.sh</codeblock></info>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>Tkinter is not installed or not linked correctly.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Test whether Tkinter is available:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>python3 -c "import tkinter; tkinter._test()"</codeblock>
              <p>If a small test window appears, Tkinter is working. If the command fails,
                proceed to the next step.</p></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>See <xref href="ts_tk_not_found.dita"/> for Tkinter-specific remedies.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>A dependency is missing or the virtual environment is corrupted.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Delete the virtual environment and reinstall dependencies:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>rm -rf .venv
bash launch.sh</codeblock>
              <p>The launch script recreates the virtual environment and installs all
                dependencies.</p></info>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>A database migration error occurred during startup.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Check the application log for migration errors:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>ls ~/.portfolio_manager/logs/
cat ~/.portfolio_manager/logs/portfolio_manager.log</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If a migration error is shown, see <xref href="ts_database_error.dita"/>.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
