<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="ts_database_error" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Database Error on Launch or During Use</title>
  <shortdesc>Portfolio Manager fails to start or displays an error message related to the
    database. Most database errors are caused by a locked file, a missing directory, or a failed
    schema migration.</shortdesc>

  <troublebody>

    <condition>
      <p>One or more of the following symptoms occur:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>A dialog shows "Database error" on launch.</li>
        <li>The application starts but projects, sessions, or milestones do not display.</li>
        <li>The log file contains <codeph>sqlite3.OperationalError</codeph> entries.</li>
        <li>The application crashes when creating or saving data.</li>
      </ul>
    </condition>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The database directory does not exist or is not writable.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Verify that <filepath>~/.portfolio_manager/</filepath> exists and is
              writable:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>ls -la ~/.portfolio_manager/</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If the directory does not exist, create it:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>mkdir -p ~/.portfolio_manager</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Relaunch Portfolio Manager. It will recreate the database automatically.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>A failed schema migration corrupted the database.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Check whether a backup exists:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>ls ~/.portfolio_manager/*.bak</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If a backup file exists, restore it:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>cp ~/.portfolio_manager/portfolio.db.bak ~/.portfolio_manager/portfolio.db</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Relaunch Portfolio Manager.</cmd>
            <stepresult>The migration runs again. If it fails a second time, check the log file
              for the specific error and report it to the project repository.</stepresult>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The database file is locked by another process.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Check whether another Portfolio Manager instance is already running and close
              it.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If no other instance is running, verify no orphan process holds the database
              lock:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>lsof ~/.portfolio_manager/portfolio.db</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Terminate any process listed, then relaunch Portfolio Manager.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
