<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="ts_mermaid_not_rendering" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Mermaid Diagrams Not Rendering in Plan Documents</title>
  <shortdesc>Mermaid diagram blocks in a project plan document display as raw text instead of
    rendered diagrams.</shortdesc>

  <troublebody>

    <condition>
      <p>In the plan document preview panel, a fenced code block tagged as
        <codeph>mermaid</codeph> is displayed as plain text rather than as a visual diagram.</p>
    </condition>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The <codeph>tkinterweb</codeph> library is not installed.</b> Without
          <codeph>tkinterweb</codeph>, the plan document preview falls back to a plain-text
          renderer that does not execute JavaScript or Mermaid.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Activate the virtual environment and install <codeph>tkinterweb</codeph>:</cmd>
            <info><codeblock>source .venv/bin/activate
pip install tkinterweb</codeblock></info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Restart Portfolio Manager.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Open the plan document and click <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            <stepresult>Mermaid diagrams should now render in the preview panel.</stepresult>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>Internet access is unavailable.</b> Mermaid rendering uses the Mermaid.js library
          loaded from a CDN. If the host machine has no internet access, the diagram cannot
          render.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Verify internet connectivity from the machine running Portfolio Manager.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If the machine is offline intentionally, use the plan document in edit mode.
              Diagrams are preserved as source text and render correctly when connectivity is
              restored.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The Mermaid diagram contains a syntax error.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to open the plan document editor.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Review the Mermaid code block for syntax errors. Common issues include:</cmd>
            <info>
              <ul>
                <li>Missing opening keyword (<codeph>flowchart TD</codeph>,
                  <codeph>sequenceDiagram</codeph>, and so on)</li>
                <li>Arrows written as <codeph>-></codeph> instead of <codeph>--&gt;</codeph></li>
                <li>Node labels containing unescaped special characters</li>
              </ul>
            </info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Correct the syntax, then click <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> to verify the
              diagram renders.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
