<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="ts_sessions_missing" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Sessions Not Appearing on the Dashboard or Sessions Tab</title>
  <shortdesc>Sessions you have created do not appear in the Sessions tab or are not reflected in
    the Dashboard score.</shortdesc>

  <troublebody>

    <condition>
      <p>One or more of the following occurs:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The Sessions tab shows no sessions for the current week even though sessions were
          created.</li>
        <li>The Dashboard shows 0 planned or done sessions for a project that has sessions.</li>
        <li>Marking a session Done does not change the project score.</li>
      </ul>
    </condition>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The week selector is showing a different week than the one the sessions were
          created for.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>In the Sessions tab, check the week key displayed in the week selector.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Compare it with the week key shown in the left panel for the current week.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>If they differ, use the arrow buttons in the week selector to navigate to the
              correct week.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The session's scheduled date falls in a different week than expected.</b></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Locate the session: in the Sessions tab, click the Previous button to navigate
              to surrounding weeks, or look for the session in the week where you created it.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Select the session and click <uicontrol>Edit Session</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Correct the <uicontrol>Date</uicontrol> field to a date in the intended week
              and save.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The session status is Backlog or Cancelled.</b> Backlog and Cancelled sessions
          do not appear in the Dashboard counts and do not contribute to the project score.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Select the session in the Sessions tab.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Edit Session</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Change the status to <uicontrol>Planned</uicontrol> and save.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

    <troubleSolution>
      <cause>
        <p><b>The project's status is Backlog or Archive.</b> Sessions for non-active projects
          are excluded from the Dashboard.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy>
        <steps>
          <step>
            <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Set the status filter to <uicontrol>All</uicontrol> and locate the project.</cmd>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Edit Project</uicontrol>, change the status to
              <uicontrol>Active</uicontrol>, and save.</cmd>
          </step>
        </steps>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>

  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
